README.md, before:

# The Cognitive Toolkit - Enhanced Edition

🧠 **Four essential utilities for better decisions, coordination, and knowledge retention.**

A comprehensive productivity suite featuring advanced text analysis, time zone coordination, commitment evaluation, and cost projection tools with modern web app capabilities.

## 🌟 Features

### 📝 Enhanced Text Analyzer
- **Real-time analysis** with debounced calculations
- **Multiple readability metrics** (Flesch Reading Ease)
- **Keyword density analysis** with smart filtering
- **Advanced statistics** (words, characters, sentences, paragraphs)
- **Reading time estimation** based on average reading speed

### 🌍 Smart Time Zone Coordinator
- **Multi-zone comparison** with up to 4 time zones
- **Working hours visualization** (9 AM - 5 PM highlighting)
- **Current time highlighting** for easy reference
- **48-hour scheduling view** with half-hour increments
- **Framework for recurring meetings** and DST alerts

### ⚖️ Advanced Commitment Calculator
- **Weighted cost analysis** (Time × Energy vs Reward)
- **Smart recommendations** based on decision scores
- **Project templates** structure for common scenarios
- **Decision history tracking** for pattern recognition
- **Visual feedback** with color-coded recommendations

### 📈 Interactive Cost Escalator
- **Opportunity cost visualization** for recurring expenses
- **Multiple frequency options** (daily, weekly, monthly, yearly)
- **Investment growth projections** with customizable returns
- **Long-term impact analysis** (5, 10, 20 year projections)
- **Interactive charts** and inflation calculations

## 🚀 Modern Web App Features

### 📱 Progressive Web App (PWA)
- **Offline functionality** with service worker caching
- **Install as native app** on mobile and desktop
- **App-like experience** with manifest configuration
- **Background sync** capabilities

### 🎨 Enhanced User Experience
- **Dark mode support** with system preference detection
- **Touch gestures** for mobile navigation (swipe left/right)
- **Keyboard shortcuts** (Alt+1-5 for quick tool access)
- **Responsive design** optimized for all screen sizes
- **Smooth animations** and transitions

### 💾 Data Persistence & Export
- **LocalStorage integration** for preferences and history
- **Auto-save functionality** with debounced updates
- **Calculation history** tracking with reload capability
- **Multiple export formats**: PDF, JSON, CSV
- **Share functionality** with native Web Share API

### ♿ Accessibility Features
- **ARIA labels** for screen reader support
- **Keyboard navigation** with proper focus management
- **High contrast support** and focus indicators
- **Screen reader announcements** for view changes

## 🛠️ Technical Implementation

### Architecture
- **Modular JavaScript** with class-based design patterns
- **CSS Custom Properties** for theming and consistency
- **Debounced calculations** for optimal performance
- **Error handling** with graceful degradation
- **Performance monitoring** with built-in metrics

### Browser Support
- **Modern browsers** (Chrome 80+, Firefox 75+, Safari 13+, Edge 80+)
- **Mobile browsers** with touch gesture support
- **PWA support** where available
- **Graceful fallbacks** for older browsers

## 🎯 Usage Instructions

### Getting Started
1. **Open** `index.html` in a modern web browser
2. **Install** as PWA using the install button (recommended)
3. **Navigate** using the dashboard or keyboard shortcuts
4. **Toggle** dark mode with the theme button in the top-right

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- `Alt + 1` - Dashboard
- `Alt + 2` - Text Analyzer
- `Alt + 3` - Time Zone Coordinator  
- `Alt + 4` - Commitment Calculator
- `Alt + 5` - Cost Escalator
- `Escape` - Return to Dashboard

### Mobile Gestures
- **Swipe left/right** to navigate between tools
- **Tap and hold** for contextual options
- **Pull to refresh** dashboard statistics

### Export Options
Each tool includes export functionality:
- **PDF Export** - Formatted reports with calculations
- **JSON Export** - Raw data for further analysis
- **CSV Export** - Spreadsheet-compatible format
- **Share URLs** - Quick sharing via Web Share API

## 📊 Performance Features

### Optimizations
- **Debounced inputs** (300ms) for smooth real-time calculations
- **Lazy loading** of tool-specific resources
- **Efficient DOM updates** with minimal re-rendering
- **Service worker caching** for offline performance

### Data Management
- **Maximum 100 calculations** in history (configurable)
- **Automatic cleanup** of old cache entries
- **Compressed storage** using JSON serialization
- **Background sync** for data persistence

## 🔧 Configuration

### Customizable Settings
```javascript
const CONFIG = {
    version: '2.0.0',
    debounceTime: 300,        // Input debounce delay
    autoSaveInterval: 5000,   // Auto-save frequency
    maxHistoryItems: 100,     // History limit
    features: {
        darkMode: true,       // Dark mode support
        pwa: true,           // PWA functionality
        export: true,        // Export capabilities
        analytics: true,     // Usage analytics
        gestures: true       // Touch gestures
    }
};
```

## 🌐 Deployment

### GitHub Pages
This repository is configured for GitHub Pages deployment:
- **Live Demo**: [https://paulinmemphis.github.io/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/](https://paulinmemphis.github.io/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/)
- **Automatic updates** on push to main branch
- **PWA installation** available from live site

### Local Development
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed.git

# Navigate to directory
cd tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed

# Open in browser (no build process required)
open index.html
```

## 📁 File Structure

```
tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/
├── index.html          # Enhanced main application
├── manifest.json       # PWA manifest configuration
├── sw.js              # Service worker for offline support
├── original.html      # Original version for reference
└── README.md          # This documentation
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Enhancement Ideas
- [ ] **Calendar integration** for time zone coordinator
- [ ] **Advanced analytics** dashboard
- [ ] **Team collaboration** features  
- [ ] **Data visualization** improvements
- [ ] **Additional export formats** (Word, PowerPoint)
- [ ] **Multi-language support**
- [ ] **Advanced accessibility** features

### Development Guidelines
1. **Maintain backward compatibility** with original functionality
2. **Follow accessibility standards** (WCAG 2.1 AA)
3. **Optimize for performance** and mobile devices
4. **Test across browsers** and screen sizes
5. **Document new features** thoroughly

## 📜 Version History

### v2.0.0 (Enhanced Edition)
- ✅ Complete redesign with modern web standards
- ✅ PWA functionality with offline support
- ✅ Dark mode and accessibility improvements
- ✅ Data persistence and export capabilities
- ✅ Touch gestures and keyboard navigation
- ✅ Enhanced calculations and visualizations

### v1.0.0 (Original Edition)
- ✅ Basic text analyzer with Flesch readability
- ✅ Time zone coordinator for meeting planning
- ✅ Commitment cost calculator for decision making
- ✅ Recurring cost escalator for financial planning

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and distribute as needed.

## 🙋‍♂️ Support

For questions, suggestions, or issues:
- **GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/issues)
- **Discussions**: [Community discussions and ideas](https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/discussions)

---

**Built with ❤️ for productivity enthusiasts**

Commit message:

Docs: Add UI & Security update summary (2025-11-27)

README.md, after:

# The Cognitive Toolkit - Enhanced Edition

🧠 **Four essential utilities for better decisions, coordination, and knowledge retention.**

A comprehensive productivity suite featuring advanced text analysis, time zone coordination, commitment evaluation, and cost projection tools with modern web app capabilities.

## 🌟 Features

### 📝 Enhanced Text Analyzer
- **Real-time analysis** with debounced calculations
- **Multiple readability metrics** (Flesch Reading Ease)
- **Keyword density analysis** with smart filtering
- **Advanced statistics** (words, characters, sentences, paragraphs)
- **Reading time estimation** based on average reading speed

### 🌍 Smart Time Zone Coordinator
- **Multi-zone comparison** with up to 4 time zones
- **Working hours visualization** (9 AM - 5 PM highlighting)
- **Current time highlighting** for easy reference
- **48-hour scheduling view** with half-hour increments
- **Framework for recurring meetings** and DST alerts

### ⚖️ Advanced Commitment Calculator
- **Weighted cost analysis** (Time × Energy vs Reward)
- **Smart recommendations** based on decision scores
- **Project templates** structure for common scenarios
- **Decision history tracking** for pattern recognition
- **Visual feedback** with color-coded recommendations

### 📈 Interactive Cost Escalator
- **Opportunity cost visualization** for recurring expenses
- **Multiple frequency options** (daily, weekly, monthly, yearly)
- **Investment growth projections** with customizable returns
- **Long-term impact analysis** (5, 10, 20 year projections)
- **Interactive charts** and inflation calculations

## 🚀 Modern Web App Features

### 📱 Progressive Web App (PWA)
- **Offline functionality** with service worker caching
- **Install as native app** on mobile and desktop
- **App-like experience** with manifest configuration
- **Background sync** capabilities

### 🎨 Enhanced User Experience
- **Dark mode support** with system preference detection
- **Touch gestures** for mobile navigation (swipe left/right)
- **Keyboard shortcuts** (Alt+1-5 for quick tool access)
- **Responsive design** optimized for all screen sizes
- **Smooth animations** and transitions

### 💾 Data Persistence & Export
- **LocalStorage integration** for preferences and history
- **Auto-save functionality** with debounced updates
- **Calculation history** tracking with reload capability
- **Multiple export formats**: PDF, JSON, CSV
- **Share functionality** with native Web Share API

### ♿ Accessibility Features
- **ARIA labels** for screen reader support
- **Keyboard navigation** with proper focus management
- **High contrast support** and focus indicators
- **Screen reader announcements** for view changes

## 🛠️ Technical Implementation

### Architecture
- **Modular JavaScript** with class-based design patterns
- **CSS Custom Properties** for theming and consistency
- **Debounced calculations** for optimal performance
- **Error handling** with graceful degradation
- **Performance monitoring** with built-in metrics

### Browser Support
- **Modern browsers** (Chrome 80+, Firefox 75+, Safari 13+, Edge 80+)
- **Mobile browsers** with touch gesture support
- **PWA support** where available
- **Graceful fallbacks** for older browsers

## 🎯 Usage Instructions

### Getting Started
1. **Open** `index.html` in a modern web browser
2. **Install** as PWA using the install button (recommended)
3. **Navigate** using the dashboard or keyboard shortcuts
4. **Toggle** dark mode with the theme button in the top-right

### Keyboard Shortcuts
- `Alt + 1` - Dashboard
- `Alt + 2` - Text Analyzer
- `Alt + 3` - Time Zone Coordinator  
- `Alt + 4` - Commitment Calculator
- `Alt + 5` - Cost Escalator
- `Escape` - Return to Dashboard

### Mobile Gestures
- **Swipe left/right** to navigate between tools
- **Tap and hold** for contextual options
- **Pull to refresh** dashboard statistics

### Export Options
Each tool includes export functionality:
- **PDF Export** - Formatted reports with calculations
- **JSON Export** - Raw data for further analysis
- **CSV Export** - Spreadsheet-compatible format
- **Share URLs** - Quick sharing via Web Share API

## 📊 Performance Features

### Optimizations
- **Debounced inputs** (300ms) for smooth real-time calculations
- **Lazy loading** of tool-specific resources
- **Efficient DOM updates** with minimal re-rendering
- **Service worker caching** for offline performance

### Data Management
- **Maximum 100 calculations** in history (configurable)
- **Automatic cleanup** of old cache entries
- **Compressed storage** using JSON serialization
- **Background sync** for data persistence

## 🔧 Configuration

### Customizable Settings
```javascript
const CONFIG = {
    version: '2.0.0',
    debounceTime: 300,        // Input debounce delay
    autoSaveInterval: 5000,   // Auto-save frequency
    maxHistoryItems: 100,     // History limit
    features: {
        darkMode: true,       // Dark mode support
        pwa: true,           // PWA functionality
        export: true,        // Export capabilities
        analytics: true,     // Usage analytics
        gestures: true       // Touch gestures
    }
};
```

## 🌐 Deployment

### GitHub Pages
This repository is configured for GitHub Pages deployment:
- **Live Demo**: [https://paulinmemphis.github.io/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/](https://paulinmemphis.github.io/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/)
- **Automatic updates** on push to main branch
- **PWA installation** available from live site

### Local Development
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed.git

# Navigate to directory
cd tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed

# Open in browser (no build process required)
open index.html
```

## 📁 File Structure

```
tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/
├── index.html          # Enhanced main application
├── manifest.json       # PWA manifest configuration
├── sw.js              # Service worker for offline support
├── original.html      # Original version for reference
└── README.md          # This documentation
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Enhancement Ideas
- [ ] **Calendar integration** for time zone coordinator
- [ ] **Advanced analytics** dashboard
- [ ] **Team collaboration** features  
- [ ] **Data visualization** improvements
- [ ] **Additional export formats** (Word, PowerPoint)
- [ ] **Multi-language support**
- [ ] **Advanced accessibility** features

### Development Guidelines
1. **Maintain backward compatibility** with original functionality
2. **Follow accessibility standards** (WCAG 2.1 AA)
3. **Optimize for performance** and mobile devices
4. **Test across browsers** and screen sizes
5. **Document new features** thoroughly

## 📜 Version History

### v2.0.0 (Enhanced Edition)
- ✅ Complete redesign with modern web standards
- ✅ PWA functionality with offline support
- ✅ Dark mode and accessibility improvements
- ✅ Data persistence and export capabilities
- ✅ Touch gestures and keyboard navigation
- ✅ Enhanced calculations and visualizations

### v1.0.0 (Original Edition)

## 🛡️ UI & Security Updates (2025-11-27)

This repository recently received a focused UI polish and a security hardening pass. Changes are small and non-breaking, and aim to improve usability and reduce attack surface.

- UI Improvements
    - Reworked dashboard tool cards with a cleaner two-column layout, consistent icon tiles, and improved spacing.
    - Replaced decorative emojis with an inline SVG sprite for consistent, accessible icons.
    - Polished typography (scales, line-height) and refined button/card elevation for a more professional look.
    - Added keyboard affordances and clearer action hints (press Enter to open a tool).

- Security Hardening
    - Introduced a SecurityManager with strong input validation and sanitized DOM construction (no unsanitized innerHTML usage).
    - Content Security Policy headers and SRI were added for external resources where applicable.
    - Replaced dynamic template string insertions with safe element creation and attribute sanitization.
    - Removed inline execution vectors and hardened event handlers to avoid template injection.

If you want a staged changelog or a separate `SECURITY.md` with technical details (attack vectors, patches applied, and remediation steps), I can add it to the repository.
- ✅ Basic text analyzer with Flesch readability
- ✅ Time zone coordinator for meeting planning
- ✅ Commitment cost calculator for decision making
- ✅ Recurring cost escalator for financial planning

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and distribute as needed.

## 🙋‍♂️ Support

For questions, suggestions, or issues:
- **GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/issues)
- **Discussions**: [Community discussions and ideas](https://github.com/paulinmemphis/tools-i-did-not-know-i-needed/discussions)

---

**Built with ❤️ for productivity enthusiasts**
